this is a $79 Chromebook and I'm going
to optimize it for Competitive Gaming
but you might be wondering why a $79
Chromebook is not exactly the kind of
device you'd think of for gaming let
alone gaming at the highest level for
real cash prices they're slow small and
built for typing essays and that's
exactly why I went through every hidden
feature to optimize this Chromebook and
turn it into a competitive gaming PC
however the biggest problem is that
Chromebooks run on Chrome OS and pretty
much every single gaming PC in the world
runs on window Windows making this
challenge way harder than optimizing a
normal $50 PC but luckily this biggest
problem is also the easiest hurdle in
this video because all we have to do is
just not use Chrome OS right well it's
just not that simple because this $79
Chromebook is not your average
Chromebook this is an actual School
Chromebook that was given for free from
the school to my friend's brother for
free I thought it was
$79 well if for some reason you want to
buy one of these terrible Chromebooks
they are available to purchase for just
$79 or $10,000 if you live in Canada
which is a little bit overpriced for a
laptop with 4 gigs of RAM but yeah this
Chromebook is disgusting did Timmy take
a [__] inside the USB port what is this
brown stuff and you would think that
installing Windows onto it would be a
pretty simple process but since this
Chromebook still belongs to the school
finding a way to bypass all these
restrictions was going to be tough and
on top of that Windows 11 takes up more
storage than the total storage in this
potato but obviously I knew this was
going to be a problem so I came prepared
I'm actually two steps ahead I'm on my
nikocado avocado type [__] because the
same friend who gave me his brother's
Chromebook also gave me this two
terabyte external hard drive 2 years ago
so now I actually have something useful
to do with this thing it doesn't seem
like there's anything important in here
so I'm just going to wipe the whole
thing and install Windows from this
totally safe website that has Windows
installations for five bajillion
different Chromebooks and after a few
steps into installing Windows we're
greeted with a message that reads
developer mode is disabled on this
device by System policy now wiping the
hard drive wasn't going to cause any
difficulties but this would end up
wiping Timmy's whole Chromebook too the
thing with Chromebooks is that if you
install another OS onto it it's going to
permanently delete the original OS and
all your previous data if this was my
own Chromebook I wouldn't care because
this $79 Chromebook would probably brick
itself anyways but this could straight
up get Timmy suspended from school and
people get in trouble if it looks like
your Chromebook was even slightly
tampered with so imagine what would
happen if I wiped the whole thing and
even if I was a psycho and wanted to
sacrifice Timmy's academic record the
[__] is 100% not bypassable anyways
meaning we are totally 102% cooked until
now because super user might have just
saved this video and it's giving me a
solution for my exact problem until I
found out that repeatedly entering
developer mode to bypass this error can
cook my BIOS and cause this Chromebook
to be a mess or whatever the hell that
means so let's Instead try this other
guys alternative solution which will
hopefully finally get us past this brick
wall without sacrificing Timmy at ation
step one make sure your Chromebook is
off I mean I think it's off unscrew your
Chromebook back cover well one of the
screws was missing before I even started
and the very last screw was stripped so
I had to drill it out and throw it away
unscrew the battery and unplug the power
cord connecting the battery and the
motherboard this was the weirdest
battery removal I've ever done but after
some YouTube tutorials I managed to
remove the battery with no issues open
your Chromebook and press the power
button for 30 seconds this should bypass
the admin block yeah this didn't work
either I'm too fing stupid to enter
developer mode or the school board is
too smart to let me install Windows onto
my Chromebook so I texted my friend for
the login info and just signed in like a
regular student well that was a good 30
minutes of my life gone right there but
it's for the content so it doesn't
matter what does matter though is that
we're forced onto Chrome OS which is
going to cause way more problems than
you might think now that we're in we can
finally look at the specs and they are
absolutely horrendous 4 gigs of RAM and
a 1.6 GHz CPU I didn't think we could
get much worse than my $50 PC in our
first attempt at competitive gameplay on
a Chromebook we'll be using Xbox cloud
gaming so I logged in and surprisingly I
managed to hit a triple edit but the
problem is that we were getting huge
stutters every 2 seconds the game would
just completely freeze and not a single
Pro Gamer would ever touch this
Chromebook if this was the gaming
experience they were getting into now
FPS stutters like these normally happen
when your CPU is overloaded but Chrome
OS by default is already pretty
optimized to run smoothly on the slowest
CPUs like the one we have in this
Chromebook I mean the OS itself is
basically just a browser so there's not
much to be optimized in the first place
so I think this is a very rare case
where the stutters occur due to
something that isn't a CPU overload but
because most optimization guides
including mine mainly focus on the CPU
there's not much we can do to optimize
the Chromebook itself in order to fix
these stutters I first tried to switch
my mouse to Bluetooth mode which might
sound like a completely stupid idea but
hear me out a lot of high-end PCS get
worse performance if you set your mouse
to 4K polling so I was thinking maybe
this was a baby version of that issue
where 1K polling might be overloading
the CPU so by switching my mouse to
Bluetooth mode it drops the polling rate
from 1,000 HZ to 125 HZ and in turn
should remove some load from the CPU and
unsurprisingly that didn't work making
this change made me realize that these
performance issues had nothing to do
with my Chromebook or Xbox cloud gaming
but fortnite itself because I started
this Challenge on the very first day of
the new fortnite season for anyone who
doesn't play fortnite this may not sound
like an issue and in fact it probably
sounds like we should be getting more
FPS because of bug fixes that come with
new updates but at the start of every
season fortnite seems to stutter for
pretty much everyone and to add salt to
the wound Xbox cloud gaming was just too
delayed to possibly play competitively
so it's time to move on to plan B
originally Plan B was to straight up
install Windows and pay for any damages
that I do to this laptop but I
accidentally found a slightly less risky
solution in my Discord server and it was
to use my Chromebook as a remote control
to stream from my PC I know this guy was
joking
but unironically I think this could work
you might expect that the latency would
still be pretty bad but a few months
back I was actually doing remote gaming
to play Mario party with my friends and
it felt like it only had about 50
milliseconds of added input delay and I
know that's still too much delay for
comp but in the time between that in
this video I actually upgraded to
gigabit Ethernet so we might be able to
drop that input latency way closer to
zero than you probably imagined only
thing is I have no idea how the hell I'm
supposed to set this up with a
Chromebook so I'm going to figure this
out real quick the app I wanted to
install for this is called parseek
because it's one of the only remote
desktop applications designed
specifically for gaming but if you
remember from earlier in this video I
said that the biggest problem with this
challenge is that we're on Chrome OS
which makes it impossible to download
this app so instead we have to resort to
Google Chrome's remote desktop which is
blocked by the school because why should
you let your students have any freedom
with their devices with no apps
available to us we're forced to use the
browser version of par second and even
after giving it so much praise we ran
into every possible issue the delay is
even worse than Xbox cloud gaming and my
mouse also kept disappearing strangely
enough though I had absolutely no
problems when I was just sliding the
touchpad around so again I felt like it
had to be a problem with my mouse but
with the solo Victory cup quickly
creeping up I was running out of time
and running out of ideas my main concern
now was to qualify and in order to
qualify for the solo Victory cup you
need to be at least gold rank so I
optimized my Chromebook as fast as I
could I immediately noticed that it
wasn't even up to date so I very quickly
checked for updates and installed the
new update very very slowly I also went
into the performance settings of my
browser but the school institution just
blocks everything like enabling Hardware
acceleration isn't going to kill your
students bro but even after optimizing
every possible setting in Chrome OS I
still couldn't watch videos in 1080P and
somehow the internet speed test is
lagging out too like it's one thing to
have a slower connection but it's also
lagging thinking I was going to have a
fighting chance I hopped into my first
ranked game and was quickly disappointed
with what I was seeing and I was still
having the mouse issue no matter what I
did the only time my mouse actually
responded was when I dragged it very
slowly and in a game where you need to
make fast micro adjustments this was
just horrible since I didn't want to
deal with this for the entire game I
dropped as slowly as I could to buy
myself time to fix this mouse glitch I
assumed it had something to do with my
CPU overloading because only my mouse
was causing me problems and my keyboard
inputs were just fine and I noticed that
my processes were pretty clean apart
from a bunch of browser extensions
running in the background I thought this
would be pretty easy to fix by just
closing them but I was wrong it forces
you to have we video and read and write
open at all times so that they can spy
on our activities and that is literally
eating all of our resources so I kept
playing on barely opened a chest and
inevitably died and remember we need to
hit gold so we had a long way to go at
least that's what I thought because
fortnite just blessed us with an instant
qualification so it's time for the final
challenge the solo Victory cup and as I
was about to play my first match of the
tournament I noticed something wrong
with the tournament screen they put a
lock over the join button you saw I just
hit gold so it had to be because I was
playing on Xbox cloud gaming right well
I assume this had to be the case because
the only thing that changed between this
and the last time I competed in the solo
Victory cup was the fact that I'm using
cloud gaming this wasn't a big deal cuz
the only thing I got to do now is use
parek with its horrendous delay because
the point of this challenge was to just
compete in the solo Victory cup but the
tournament is locked on my PC as well
even though I'm Elite which is way above
gold we're already 15 minutes into the
tournament with zero matches played so
again I quickly tried looking for any
reason for the luck but I genuinely have
no idea I'm gold and my account level is
way above level 350 so I don't know
what's the problem so unfortunately I'm
going to have to try this challenge
again with a Chromebook that isn't
directly from the school honestly I
don't know what I was thinking trying to
optimize a Chromebook that can't even
run YouTube properly but at least I
tried my best but for now it looks like
I spent the whole week trying to achieve
the impossible but if you want see me
try and optimize a $50 PC until every
game is playable watch this video next